The previous lesson we set up our h t M-L and collecting all of our inputs that we needed in order to
make our calorie calculations to determine how much calories a person should be having per day.
So we needed a number of factors and we've got all of the inputs ready.
We also borrowed a couple of formulas from Wikipedia in order to make these calculations.
So now we're ready to go with our Javascript.
And the last lesson we left off with a challenge and that was to create an event listener for the entire
forum.
So we don't want to add event listeners to each input.
We want to have it for the whole entire forum.
So there's a number of ways that we've seen how we can add event listeners and I'm going to just do
a simple one here or we're just doing document forms because remember if we go into the my form that
basically means that we have access to it within document forms Kazumi that the document object works
is if you have a form you actually get access to it by doing forms and then it's got an ID of my form
and that's all I'm able to pick that up.
So if I was to actually put this here within my Within my console you can see that you get all of this
information here from the form and if you do something like Konsole dry and you output it there then
you can dig deeper into that form and you can see that we've got all of our inputs are listed there
by ID.
We've got all of the child nodes.
So again we can really dig into the dorm and get all of this information that we need just by simply
referencing that main form container.
So that's where we can go about it this way and save us quite a bit of code so that we don't have to
access each input individually we can just access the form as a whole.
Another thing to remember here is that we've got a bunch of inputs and all of these values are dynamic
so we inevitably have to scan through all those values and pop them into the formula to make our calculation.
So it's actually regardless of which one has changed.
We need to get all of those inputs Every time to make our calculation.
So we've got a number of ways where we can add event listener so we can do it this way where we do the
event listener.
So if you did it within this type of format.
And then here you've got your function.
So this would be the function that triggers off the change.
So this would be we would could call it output calculation or whatever.
So we'll just add that in there.
So you could do it this way or the other way is that you could do document forms and you could do the
on change.
So this is the same thing so that adding that listener on change or the change of that listener.
So just keeping in mind that for the older browsers such as Internet Explorer 8 I add that listener
doesn't always work properly.
So we're going to just actually stick with the On Change and the output is going to be the same thing.
We can link to a function which we're going to set up now so we can simply link it to a function.
So either way that you've done it it's I it will work.
So either way it's it's perfect.
So now let's set up our function.
So output calculator is the function.
And we're going to actually we're not going to pass any of the arguments as we don't actually have any
arguments to pass in here.
And first of all it's always a good idea to try it out and just to make sure that everything is working
properly.
So do target or event target.
So a list that target every time something changes.
So let's refresh try it out.
And now every time I click on any one of these inputs we can see that's firing off and it's triggering
it off and we know that the target is actually picking it up and outputting whatever element actually
triggered the event.
So we're getting all of that information there so we know that everything is working as as needed and
we're ready to go on to the next step.
So the next step is to actually get some of these values out of our h tim L and I can actually set up
a function within here.
So it's going to be a function that's going to be sitting within the function.
And this is the whole idea of if we don't need anything sitting outside of the function then if we're
only using it within the function that we contain it within the function so we're going to set all of
the variables.
And we're going to have a function here that's actually going to allow us to return back the value that's
contained within the input.
So let's set that up and I'm going to just call it Dawk idea.
So we're going to be passing through the document ID.
We're going to be picking that up and we're going to be returning the value.
So do a return and the return will be the values we'll just call it return our and then I'm going to
go down here and I'm going to set up a variable.
I'm going to call it age and this age value we're going to pull back by passing in the idea of age and
we're going to pull back that information as a value for age and then we'll just console log whatever
value of age is being returned.
So there we go.
So now what I want you to do is to pick up that document element that's being specified here within
Dawk ID and return back the value that's contained within it.
And keeping in mind that with iOS 6 we can pick up the values as arguments.
So if we're only passing and one argument we can pick up the argument by doing arguments and square
brackets zero so this will pick up that value of that first argument.
So picking that information up use document Daut query selector and returned back the value that's contained
within this input and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So let's set that up here within the function.
So let's do a let R and this is where we're going to use document.
And this time we're you only use queery selector because queries selector allows us to make our selection
and it treats it as if we were using the same way that we're using CSSA.
So if we're using query select or we're passing over an ID number include the hash for the ID it will
return back the element that's been selected.
So let's try this out.
Let's refresh.
And every time we make a change now it should pull back each and we see that we've got the value there.
And I did say that we want to return the value.
So let's update this and we can do something like our value.
And this should return back the value that's contained within age.
See now it's 31 33 so every time we're making changes it is making that update if we go to 34 we see
34 is being output
so quickly looking at all of our inputs all of our inputs will work we can get weight we can get height
we can get age we can get lifestyle.
But when it comes to the radio buttons they're actually going to work a little bit differently.
So if I was actually to return a value of the radio button and we can try it out within the console
so let's clear that up.
And if we do document query selector and because this one has an idea of if we do value we see that
the value is on if we do f then the value is going to also be on.
So it doesn't it doesn't matter if it's checked off or not even if it's checked off it's still going
to be on.
So this creates a problem here when we're actually trying to get back the value because if it's a radio
button we can't simply do the query selector Plus the ID and do value.
So this creates a problem and we need to create a formula here in order to differentiate those values.
So what do I need to do now is to use the terror unary operator and set the value of our check to see
if the value of our is equal to on and if it is then we're actually going to look for the element and
we're going to check to see if it's actually checked.
So if we do something like F and if we do checked we see that it's true.
If I uncheck it and if I do the same statement we're going to see that.
Now it's false.
So using this what I want you to do is to return true or false within this value using terrine ary operator.
So instead of our value update it.
So it's returning back the check value.
Or if it's not a value of on then go ahead and return back the the value of that element.
And I'll show you the solution coming up.
So the solution is our and I usually like for the ternary operators I like to use it in the rounded
brackets so you don't have to send a check to see if our value is equal to on which we saw that both
the radio buttons have a value of on.
So doesn't matter if they're checked or not.
So we see that if essentially it's a radio button and if it is there it take the value of our checked
and otherwise we know that we want to return back the value of our.
And I want to throw one more thing in here.
So this is a good point to add in and convert it into a numeric value because as we saw earlier we know
that those inputs are being returned back as strings and they're not going to work well when we added
into our formula as strings.
So it's better to convert it to a number.
And in this way we know that we're returning back those numbers.
So let's go ahead and refresh and let's make an update and we can see that we're returning back that
as a number now.
So this is a numeric value.
And also let's quickly try that within Dawk ID so let's copy that in.
And Doc ID and this time let's do am.
So this is just to make sure that everything is working properly.
So we see that it's false.
If I click it and update it it goes back to true.
So we know that we're able to pick that up.
So the next part is to put all of these numbers together.
All of these numbers into variables and then punch it into our formula here and then return that result
and output it within an output area.
So that's all coming up in the next lesson.
And between the lessons what I want you to do now is to do the same thing that we did for age and pick
up the weight pick up the lifestyle and then for here you're going to have to actually do a little bit
of calculation because we know for every inch there's 12 inches in a foot.
So we need to get the overall value in inches that we're going to be multiplying.
So we've got height in inches here.
So we need to get that height value in inches.
So go ahead and add that and update it into a formula where we've got the age the lifestyle the weight
and then the height is a total value of the inches that have been selected.
So go ahead and try that out and I'll show you the solution coming up in the next lesson.